## august 7

Hello there, how have you been? If you are asking me back, yes, I am good. Not just good, but real good. I am more at peace, taking things one step at a time, and letting God surprise me with what He has in store for me and my hubby. 


## august 30

And just like that, the eighth month of the year has passed. The barren trees are blooming again, the flowers are donning their petals, and the sun is painting golden hues across the sky. Another season has passed, and another one begins, just like how they ebb for years. I have pondered a lot and am still pondering while nearing the edge of my season that will be brought to a still. I learned, I loved, I cried; encouraged, wept, and sighed. But in the end, I find myself smiling with content, grateful that my Creator has brought me on this bend. Indeed, rejections are His redirections, and sometimes I still have to remind myself of this when my worries are filling my cup to the brim.

I am glad that I am here. I never would have imagined saying this two years past. I found home in the most unusual of places, where none of my roots have grown. How is it possible? I, myself, am baffled! But I finally found solitude and contentment after 28 years of existence. Here, kindness is upheld, empathy and kindness are freely given, and your uniqueness is celebrated. Sadly enough, though, this is a far cry from where I came from: you have to clamor to be the best there is, you have to be perfect and greatly achieving, yet not too much that you embarrass others. Excellence was sought, but you shouldn't don it in front of others. You should, however, be mediocre; otherwise, you'll bring offense to the people around you. What an irony! Just the thought of living in it again makes my heart sink. I don't want to stifle and restrict the heart God has given me anymore.