## december 5

✨ What an experience! What a night! A dream come true! 

It has been years since I secretly yearned to watch Hamilton live in a theater. Upon learning that Lin-Manuel Miranda is the musical’s composer, I knew I had to get my hands on a ticket for the show! I have deep respect for Miranda’s craft, and I find his music refreshing, head-bopping, and somewhat intriguing.

I first heard his name back in 2016 when I looked up who composed the music for Disney’s Moana. The entire Moana soundtrack has this je ne sais quoi that sets it apart from a typical Disney movie. “This should be in a musical,” I fondly remember saying, not knowing that Lin-Manuel Miranda was already a musical theater composer! Fast forward to 2021, when Disney’s Encanto was released, and boy, was I blown away by its soundtrack! If you didn’t know this about me, I have a deep appreciation and love for music. For as long as I can remember, I’ve admired how each beat and tone complements well-thought-out lyrics. So, it’s no surprise that I’m drawn to Miranda’s work.

Watching plays and theater productions has always tugged at my heart, though I haven’t had the chance to attend many due to certain circumstances. My mind often imagines all the behind-the-scenes efforts required to run a play smoothly—efforts that don’t always get the recognition they deserve! I have a grasp of how hard it is, having participated in church plays (hello, UC Love Concert! 👋) and even creating one for a school project. For that project, I wrote a play based on the historical Roman gladiators. It didn’t include a musical score, but I wrote all the scripts for the characters, constantly reminding myself to stick to the storyline, deliver the right emotional intensity, and direct the ensemble to set the tone of each scene. It was chaotic, messy, and I loved every second of it! Too bad I didn’t archive the script—it would have been such a nostalgia trip.

I couldn’t believe my eyes when I finally got to experience Hamilton firsthand! I thought it might have the same impact as The Phantom of the Opera play I once watched on YouTube, but no—it was so much more. “Phenomenal” is an understatement. This is my first live theater experience, and it definitely won’t be my last! ✨


## december 12

It feels so surreal to know that I can finally touch my pen on a piece of paper and write freely -- free from the academic outlines and grading systems that followed me for 2 years. I also found it amazing how this length of time can pull me over and straighten my otherwise messy and blurry affairs. I caught up with the milestones that I skipped years ago in order for me to mature quickly -- a situation I had to go through thinking I didn't have any choice or any say in the course of my life. I gained confidence, I spoke my mind freely, I encountered unadulterated kindness -- one that I haven't seen before, I learned how to socialize respectfully, and I finally found value in myself. All these lessons come with a precaution: it doesn't mean that I can, I will. What I am trying to say is discernment is still of upfront value and how I behave in a situation comes from reading its underlying tone and behaving justly.

I have also been keeping up with reading my Bible. I made it my goal to finish the whole thing this year and so far, I am on track. Knowledge and know-how of where to read certain topics in the Bible are applaudable, but having a real connection with the people and stories in it is much more profound. I can now also fully attest to the claims of my brothers and sisters in Christ that the whole collection of books in it all leads to Jesus Christ -- this is his story, on how God has preemptively decided to redeem us before we wreck any more havoc amongst ourselves and render us irreconcilable with Him. Of course, this has not given me all the answers for life's mysteries, no, of course not, but I do believe the Holy Spirit will reveal those things in the perfect time when He deems that it is beneficial for me or the church to know it. The only thing that I have to do is keep on reading and studying the Bible all throughout my life. Now that 2025 is looming over, I still do not know what book to study first in the Bible. I know that it should be in the New Testament (because the number of questions that crossed my mind reading them are too many to count) and I should do it in-depth. I plan on knowing the history of when the certain book/letter was written, what was the cultural and political climate of that time, and what sort of people these books refer to. Those I have to know.

'Tis also the time for me to sling myself back into the industry. I have already finished studying for my master's and I have to get my sorry behind moving. In all honesty, I find myself scared and afraid, feeling like a fresh new graduate of which I technically am not totally! I have 5 years of work experience in a multinational company (this is me hyping myself) and I have skills that I can now land on the table. I now have possible directions in my career, something that I did not possess when I first entered the workforce -- I should be fine! ...Right?

I have a few potential jobs that I intend to apply to, one of which I have to reach out to a friend to ask for a recommendation. I really do hope that they will consider and take me in. However, I kind of have second thoughts -- this company is a startup and I do not know if I have it in me to start in one? Or maybe this is a good opportunity to start the processes with the company, what do you say? I certainly do not know what to expect, well I kind of do, but I do not want to have my initial impression be marred by the personal findings of my friends. Their experiences are useful, yes, but one thing I do know is that every department is different and has its own subculture. I just do not know if I am ready -- once again! -- to subject myself to working too hard that I might find myself burnt out. I do not wish to be in that position again. 😔 God knows what I will end up there and if my decision is wrong, I do believe that God has ample grace to help me start again and land on the job He intends for me to have. I am deciding that from now on, I will not let my fear of failure stop me from trying new things and berate myself out of experiencing something new.

Since we are already here in the topic of jobs, I am eager to help my dear husband out. See, he has been applying for jobs since October of last year and I can't help but feel sorry for him. It's not that he's not doing his best, he is! But the constant rejection and ghosting have sucked the life out of him. He is now questioning his career path and trying out others that may be good for him. Only God knows why He allowed this to happen to my Ken and I do hope this is for the best. Maybe, just maybe, God has destined my husband for sales; he just doesn't know because no one in his family has done so. Maybe he is the first! Who knows? Maybe this is the time God is freeing my Ken from the societal pressures and waiting for him to come and ask Him. Who knows, maybe.

I believe we have also entered the season where we are learning how to foster relationships with our friends and family. It is so easy to get caught up in our own businesses that we might end up looking selfish and narcissistic -- just thinking about ourselves. I pray that that wouldn't happen; I love to have a community of uplifting each other and not be self-absorbed. I learned a lot of things about how to honor them from observing the stuff we are doing in my current job for the students. I realized that giving gifts should not be expensive; they should be heartfelt and genuine. In that notion, I would love to pitch this idea to my husband and I hope he'll agree.


## december 30

"We are currently straddling between two years: one in the old and one in the new," says Natalie Pingel, one of the lead pastors in Hillsong Waterloo. And I couldn't help but agree, for I am currently assessing how my 2024 went and planning for what the next year would be.

I stared at my Instagram post last night. It was a glass decorative piece with Ken and my picture on it, gifted by Ate Mae last Christmas. I loved it, and it's now currently displayed on one of our shelves. I read what I wrote as a caption. It mentioned "Us the Somils." I stared. I pondered. A part of me doesn't agree, even if I love the guy on my right to death and God has blessed our union. It didn't take a blink of an eye for me to talk and pray to God and ask Him why I am feeling this way. Great thing that I have been in close communion with the Holy Spirit, and He has blessed me with keen ears and a heart to hear what He nudges me. He illuminated the dark corner of my heart and stated to pour the visions...

I saw Ken's mom and dad; they were shown to me separately, both of them smiling. However, I felt a pang in my heart. As quickly as Archimedes stood up in his bath and shouted "Eureka!", I gasped, "That's it!" Unknowingly, I equated the surname "Somil" with a broken marriage torn apart by trauma, nagging, hurt, and non-transparency. I equated it to a family that has been broken, never to be healed again. I equated it to a jealous mother-in-law who hated her son's adoration and time with her daughter-in-law. I saw my hurt; I felt the pang. I somehow felt guilty for thinking that way towards my husband's family. Instead of nurturing the pain, I validated what I was feeling, I accepted the truth, and gave it to God immediately. No wonder I had a hard time fully taking in my husband's surname; I have not declared what was hurting me.

Also, no wonder I had a hard time letting go of my papa's surname. I was holding on to the things I wished I should have done when I still bore his last name. See, in my papa's side of the family, he's the only one who doesn't have a son to carry on his legacy. All of his siblings have either one or more sons born to them, but to him, he was blessed with two strong and capable women. None of whom will carry his surname once we got married. As the eldest, I took it upon myself to bring honor to him and give papa something to be proud of just to compensate for his lack of a son. I am aware of this old traditional mindset that I have; it just hurts me that papa doesn't have a son to pass on his myriad of parenting and marriage skills; he doesn't have a son to ride bikes with, go to the mountains and chop wood with, and so on. Lies in the deepest crevices of my heart is the desire to honor my papa and mama with an accolade so big that will somehow affirm the hardship and sacrifices they went through all throughout the decades. Even with that sliver of pride, if I can make them smile, everything would have been worthwhile.

In my very own way, I, too, am straddling, not between two years, but with two lives -- one is being and staying a "Rosete," and the other one is embracing what it's like to be a "Somil."

With grief and honesty in my heart, I uttered to God my case. Through my tear-streaked face, I admitted my fear of taking my new name and letting go of my old one, weighing the meaning and hurt of what my new surname bears. I pleaded with God and said these words...

"Lord God, please give 'Somil' a different meaning, one that is not marred by hurt and pain. May You redeem this family name and make it Yours. Help me to take it in as my own from now on."

And in silence, I waited. In my crying, I waited.

Until the Holy Spirit gave me a revelation: The word "Somil" is a semordnilap of the Filipino word "Limos," which means alms. This is also used as a family name commonly heard in Tarlac, on the island of Luzon. God revealed to me that as "Somil" is "limos" spelled backward, this means that instead of receiving meager alms, we will be the ones giving alms. I saw the word "generosity" flash before my eyes. He then followed this up with these words...

"You will be the head and not the tail," a snippet of the Bible verse from Deuteronomy 28:23, which says, "The Lord will make you the head, not the tail. If you pay attention to the commands of the Lord your God that I give you this day and carefully follow them, you will always be at the top, never at the bottom."

May Your will be done, my God. May You make my heart soft to Your nudges and commands. Help me not to doubt You and obey You at a moment's notice. I look forward to my family's redemption that is coming. In Jesus' name, Amen.