## january 11

Now that the week of consecration has ended, Father I want to thank You for who You are. Thank You for being so faithful, infinitely merciful, and genuinely and unconditionally loving. Last 2019 has been full of learnings and tests. I probably passed a few, but I'm pretty sure I failed some. And I'm not very proud of that. But thank You for Your grace, You never let sin took a hold on me and You never let darkness overwhelm me. You sustained me. You held my hand and never let go of me. Thank You for honoring my desire to follow Jesus. You know I have a lot of limitations but that doesn't stop You from doing the thing You have started in me. I am deeply humbled by your love. I know I said this a thousand times before: I am not worthy of anything because I know I made a lot of mistakes people around me might not know about. Thank You for still looking at me with pure love eventhough You know it all, as if I haven't done any wrong.

Thank You, Lord Jesus for taking my place at the cross. I should be the one taking the blow for all of my sins yet You voluntarily offered Your life in exchange of mine. You took it all, You died the death I should've died so that I could live. Thank You. You really are love Himself. A thousand hallejujahs aren't enough to say thank You, thus I stand here waiting to be deployed for your mission. I want to obey you. I love you with all my heart and soul, Lord.

Holy Spirit what can I do without You? All my best ideas are Yours! Every good thing I have done is by You. I can't take credit of anything at all. All the counsel You gave me, I treasure it close to my heart. And by Your leading, I follow them.Thank You for being patient with me. You are the best counsellor, life coach, adviser, and best friend rolled up in one! And I can't wait to face this year with You by my side. I pray that I'd be more sensitive to your leading, to listen and not just hear, and to see and not just look. Thank you for your understanding. I really love you.

God I am ready to face this decade knowing that You are the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow - You'll still hold my hand tightly every single day. Thank You for being enthroned. In Jesus name, Amen.
