## july 28

Hi.

I hope you're doing well.

Prior to this pandemic, Instagram has been full of picturesque travel photos, food blogs, and seemingly joyful captured moments.

Now, however, it has been flooded by throwback photos with captions rich of a deep longing for pre-pandemic normalcy. We have been in isolation for too long now and it has been both a gift and a curse - something that most of us, even I, can fully bear.

This quarantine gave way to unwanted intruders into my mind - nightmares locked into my brain's deep drawers crawled back, battles I thoguht I evaded lifetimes ago asked for a harder rematch, and hard painful truths I once covered with plaster haunted me all throughout the night.

It was painful, horrifying even.

However, this time I was given strenth and grace to face them head on, even how scary the thought of it may seem. I then realized things I wouldn't have had before and won battles I should have won the first time they knocked on my door.

To this notion, I'm choosing to relish the bright side of this isolation and celebrate the gift this season has to offer me. I choose to paint this dark time with gold from my learnings, black from my sufferings, and color from my yearnings. And I don't want to waste any second of it.

I'm hoping years from now, I'd go back to see how this season has molded me - how I faced my demons and how God has given me grace and the strength to finish the day when I clearly cannot do it on my own. Years down thr road, I'd like to once again cherish my seemingly hard narrow journey through the word-painted moments of this season I posted here on Instagram.

I believe many of us are experiencing these to a certain degree, though not everyone are vocal about them. I choose to speak and bring the problem into the light.

I hope and pray that you'll be blessed with these too.


Lots of love,

Hannah
